Ismaeel Ayob is doing Louis Trichardt proud. The South African Institute of Chartered Accountants (SAICA) announced on Friday evening that, out of 4 671 candidates who wrote the Assessment of Professional Competence (APC) in December 2022, eight of them had earned a place on the institute’s APC Honours Roll. Ismaeel is among these eight accountants. The honours roll is made up of candidates who demonstrated exceptional performance and showed the greatest insight in the way they completed the case-study tasks. SAICA describes the exam as being one of the toughest challenges in the journey of aspiring chartered accountants (CA) as it requires them to integrate their technical academic knowledge from multiple disciplines into a single, complex real-life business case study. “I did not expect this achievement at all,” Ismaeel says. “I wrote this second and final board exam on the 14th of December. This was one of the final stepping stones to becoming a CA.” Ismaeel shares that he always wanted to become a CA. He grew up in Louis Trichardt and went to Ridgeway Independent and Ridgeway College respectively. In Grade 10, he was ranked the number one accounting student in South Africa, in the Cambridge International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE). “Accounting is a subject that always made sense to me. I enjoy the commerce side of things,” says Ismaeel. All his studies, an undergraduate degree in accounting science (cum laude) as well as an honours degree in accounting, were completed at the University of Johannesburg (UJ). He is currently busy with the third and final year of his training contract (articles) with a large Johannesburg-based company. “My parents and family played a massive role in my career,” Ismaeel continues, stating that they always put his and his sister’s interests first. “I was busy with my honours year when the Covid-19 lockdown was implemented. I came home – to Louis Trichardt - and studied online for the rest of that year, where I was supported by my family. I am fortunate to have grown up with parents who provided so much guidance and support,” Ismaeel says. “We live in a society where we see that the lines of morality are blurred, and I believe that it is important to uphold the moral values which I was brought up with,” he adds. Ismaeel came home this past weekend and his achievements were celebrated with family and friends. “In a small town, my success is everyone’s success!” he mentions. His words of encouragement are: “Stay focused. It is possible.” 