Sheryl James, the Soutpansberg’s own Paralympic bronze medallist, has been training hard since the beginning of the year. Having only focussed on 100 m events in 2022, Sheryl upped her training again to include the 200 and 400m events. She travels quite extensively to be able to train regularly on synthetic surfaces in preparation for national and international events. She is very grateful to have access to the Peter Mokaba stadium in Polokwane and the Makwarela stadium in Thohoyandou.  When she does not travel to the synthetic track venues, she makes use of the grass athletics track of Louis Trichardt High School (Leeupark), for which she is also extremely grateful. Sheryl is all set to compete at the 2023 Toyota SASAPD National Championships in Cape Town from 17 to 21 March. She is hoping to run qualifying times for a chance to be selected to represent South Africa at the Paris World Para-athletic championships in July this year. To remain competitive, she needs to have as much competition practice as possible. Sheryl recently launched a Facebook “athlete’s” page, which aims to raise support for her training journey, since it would be ideal if she could participate at the Para-athletics Grand Prix in Switzerland in May this year, and her media and marketing teams have embarked on a media-awareness platform to raise funds for this. The public are invited to go and support her on her Facebook page: Sheryl James. To Sheryl, the doors that her achievements open up for development in Limpopo - to assist more people in the local community to get involved in athletics and other inclusive sporting activities – are even more valuable than Paralympic glory. She is passionate about creating change through sport and takes her role as ambassador of Isability Sports Club seriously. Sheryl and fellow Isability coach Vhumbani Masakona have actively been focussing on athlete development in Limpopo amongst seniors, as well as school athletes. This year, the Limpopo Para-athletics team comprises nine juniors and 14 seniors. Unfortunately, because the national championships are in the Western Cape this year, the costs were too high to take the full complement of athletes who qualified.  New locals among the athletes in the Limpopo team are Corrie Dercksen, who will be participating in the senior seated discus and shotput events, and junior Franco Botha, a Laerskool Louis Trichardt learner, who is competing in U/15 long jump, javelin, and discus, and Lucas Mapiteke from Elim, who is a wheelchair athlete. 