Family and friends said a sad farewell to 54 year-old Kevin van Zyl, who lost his battle against cancer on Thursday, 2 March. Kevin Pieter Van Zyl was born on 16 March 1968 in Hatfield, Salisbury (Harare) and attended Cranborne Boys High until the family immigrated to Secunda in South Africa, where Kevin completed his high school education with honours. He was an acclaimed sportsman - among others a first-team rugby player. An unfortunate motorbike accident in which he lost the use of his right arm landed him in hospital. This deprived him of the power to continue the activities at which he excelled, and he chose the life motto “I am not disabled, I am different”. Kevin subsequently joined a mine as an underground surveyor. He married later and had a son called Divan (his pride and joy). He moved to the South Coast in KwaZulu-Natal, where him and his mother managed a holiday complex, until they moved to Lalanathi Caravan Park. The manager at Lalanathi remarked that Kevin had been an integral part of running the business for ten years, mainly responsible for maintenance and security and was well liked by all. After the lockdown in September 2020, Kevin moved to Louis Trichardt to stay with his sister-in-law, Margaret van Zyl, and  Gwen Loots, where he was truly valued. “There was nothing that he could not repair or improve. He took on creative projects, including designing and completing a greenhouse, wooden structures, as well as general maintenance,” said Gwen. Kevin loved relaxing next to the fish pond in the beautiful garden, where friends met him and shared in his cutting-edge humour. He quickly settled in and was loved by all family members and the circle of friends, for whom he did many favours. After a short confinement, Kevin passed away from cancer. Kevin inspired the theme “We Shall Overcome” during the memorial service held for him at Gwen’s home on Sunday, 5 March. The service was led by Pastor Johan Kotzee of the Emmanuel Christian Church. He spoke directly to the family and friends and said, “If Kevin can do it, so can all of us”. Kevin is survived by his son Divan, sister Elizabeth Oake and sister-in-law Margaret. Gwen and Margaret expressed their sincere gratitude to Dr Emile Gaigher, Sister Ella and Jernay McLeod from the Makhado Care Group for their amazing support during Kevin’s illness. 