A Louis Trichardt mother is having sleepless nights after her daughter, the 20-year-old Tamia Hefter Salem, has gone missing. Tamia, a learner at Louis Trichardt High School, was last seen at the school on the first day of the new school year last Wednesday, 11 January. Tamia wrote het Grade 11 final exams last year but unfortunately did not pass. Upon returning to school last Wednesday, she accompanied her class mates, this year’s Grade 12 learners, for class selection. With her name not on the list of this year’s Grade 12 learners, she returned to the school office and asked for a printout of her report card as she wanted to check her marks again. “Apparently she told the office lady that she did not receive her report card at the end of last year. She just could not accept the fact that she failed …  When I asked her about her report card showing she failed, she explained that she spoke to a teacher at the school who told her she did not meet the school’s requirements to pass, but did meet the government’s requirements. She was in denial,” said her distraught mother, Abiba Adewuyi, on Tuesday. Because of loadshedding last Wednesday morning when the school reopened, Tamia was told to wait in the school foyer for a bit until the power came back on again to print out a duplicate report card. When the power came back on again, the report card was printed, but no trace of Tamia could be found. A closer inspection of the school cameras later revealed that amidst all the chaos of the first school day and the Grade 8 parents and pupils coming and going in preparation for the Grade 8 camp, Tamia had stood near the school gate for some time before slipping out unseen. Meanwhile, as she had never gone to the Grade 11 class she was supposed to, she was marked absent by her register teacher and nobody pursued her absence any further. When Tamia did not return from school that day, Abiba became worried. “We spoke to all her friends and they came with a lot of stories. Apparently, she talked about some kind of demon possessing her and, according to her friends, she was very ‘different’ from her usual self the last couple of school days last year,” said Abiba. Worryingly, Abiba said, Tamia had also talked about suicide. Abiba, like any parent would be, is worried sick about her daughter. Her disappearance is also extremely traumatic for her younger siblings. “Everybody is constantly asking them: Where is Tamia?” said Abiba. She did confirm that their domestic worker was positive that she had seen Tamia return home after she had left the school, changing her clothes and taking some money before leaving their home in President Steyn Street. In the meantime, several reports were received about Tamia being spotted at different locations around town the past week. This was confirmed by local police spokesperson Constable Irene Radzilane. The Makhado police are also investigating a missing-person case. “At least she is still alive,” said Abiba, who constantly prays for her daughter’s safe return home.  She said she did not care about her daughter’s failing; she only wanted her back. “As a school we encourage parents to make use of our school psychologists, should they find that their child is experiencing problems. Counselling is available and they do not have to go through problems alone,” said Louis Trichardt High School principal Mr Theo Muller. He said that upon receiving the news that Tamia had gone missing, they had done everything in their power to assist the family in searching for her. He said that this was a very unfortunate and sad turn of events and that they also prayed for Tamia’s safe return home. He also stated that they had received reports that Tamia was still in town. Anyone with information that can assist in locating Tamia is urged to contact the investigating officer, Sergeant Tshifhiwa Mavhungu, on 076 4247 659, the Crime Stop number on 08600 10111 or their nearest police station. 