Limpopo police have arrested two more suspects in connection with the daring farm attack and robbery on the well-known game farm Greater Kuduland Safaris in the Tshipise area on the evening of 27 December. The arrests bring the total number of suspects arrested in connection with the case to eight. The farm attack took place during the evening of 27 December. A group of armed suspects entered the farm and assaulted the wife of the farm owner. They gained access to where some cash and other valuables were kept, going on to steal 11 firearms, an undisclosed amount of cash in rands, US dollars and British pounds, as well as a laptop and a cellphone, before fleeing the scene in the farmer's Toyota Land Cruiser. On Wednesday (11th) the police arrested six suspects in connection with the attack and recovered eight of the 11 stolen firearms (five rifles and three handguns), 188 rounds of live ammunition, a night-vision camera, a set of Nikon binoculars, silver-plated coins, several items of jewellery, a bag full of different foreign currencies and a box with different old South African coins. The suspects, four South Africans and two foreign nationals aged between 27 and 38, were arrested  at four different locations, namely Makushu village, Musekwa village, Tshituni village and on the Greater Kuduland farm itself. During follow-up operations, the police arrested two more suspects in connection with the case and recovered a further three firearms. In total, eight of the recovered firearms were among the 11 stolen during the robbery at Greater Kuduland, while one of the other three was among the four stolen during another robbery at a smallholding along the Tshipise road on 1 December. “The latest suspects were arrested today (12th) at Matswale settlement on the outskirts of Musina and Tshituni village in the Mphephu policing area. The eighth suspect was allegedly found in possession of one of the firearms stolen from the game farm. The hunt for the other suspects is continuing,” said provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo. According to Mojapelo, a total of seven firearms are still outstanding regarding the two robberies, three firearms robbed from the smallholding and four from Greater Kuduland. The police are also still searching for the Toyota Land Cruiser that was stolen from the game farm. The motor vehicle is beige in colour, with registration number DHG 739 L. Provincial police commissioner Lieutenant General Thembi Hadebe has urged community members to  continue assisting the police in these investigations by providing valuable information that can lead to the arrest of the outstanding suspects and the recovery of the outstanding seven firearms, as well as  the Toyota Land Cruiser. Anyone with information can contact Lieutenant Colonel Mukondeleli Mildred Muenda on 079 227 0632, the crime stop number 0860010111, their nearest police station or may send a message via MySAPSApp. 