Louis Trichardt’s own Roshini Pakkiree can now add Mrs South Africa Semi-finalist to her impressive resume as she joins the class of 2023. Roshini received the happy news on Friday, 3 February, after the National Casting event at Emperor's Palace in Johannesburg. Following the announcement, the semi-finalists took part in a jam-packed two-day conference filled with motivational talks, workshops, upskilling sessions, socialising and networking opportunities, and an introduction to the famous Mrs SA sisterhood. “I was quite surprised to receive the news of being one of 100 semi-finalists, as I entered at the last minute,” says Roshini. The cut-off date for entries was 31 January. “I battled with the correct requirements for the photographs and decided not to do this anymore. My husband, Mark, insisted and finalised the entry.” Mrs South Africa is foremost a self-discovery and empowerment programme that celebrates diversity, ambition, and confidence while showcasing some of the country’s most phenomenal and talented women, and giving them the skills and tools needed to achieve their dreams. Experienced mentors teach leadership, entrepreneurship, marketing, self-promotion, and self-discovery throughout the year to ensure that all participants have a truly life-changing experience. Roshini says that she did not enter previously as she was too old to qualify. “This year, they extended the age to up to 55 years. I am now 52 and qualified!” She mentions that she decided to give it a try. “I can only gain by getting out of my comfort zone. By doing this, I also want to encourage women to get out of their comfort zones. This opportunity serves as a platform to actually show women that we all have a God-given strength to survive. God gave us all the same amount of strength, but we don’t tap into it.” Roshini adds that her eyes are not on the crown, but on the journey. “This is not only about beauty, it is about being confident with who you are, even with humps, bumps and cellulite. There are ladies from the age of 26 and only one older than me – aged 53. I cannot compete with a 26-year-old, but everybody brings something with them – I bring my life experience. One should rather compete against yourself, focus on your own goal and have fun! I thoroughly enjoyed the fun so far and made many friends,” says Roshini. Roshini shares that she was nervous during the interview on Friday. It was also extremely hard for her to answer the question “do you have children?” She had to mention that she only had one son who sadly passed away. “I realised that my situation can still make a difference in someone’s life.” This year, the casting panel was looking for women who have a keen interest in empowering others, display strong family values, and are passionate about making a difference in their community and the world. During the coming months, Roshini will be doing all her duties as expected until the 30 finalists are chosen during July. The final event will be in November. Be sure to follow Roshini’s journey on the Mrs South Africa Instagram and Facebook pages, as well on Roshini's own Facebook page. To vote for her, like and share or SMS her name to 47587 on the SMS voting line.