Close to 100 residents from Louis Trichardt town and the surrounding areas gathered at the Ferdie Beyers Hall on Saturday, 18 February, to come up with a plan to get the Vhembe District and Makhado Municipality to deliver services to residents.

The meeting was organised by Chapter 7, a community structure that was established last year. The name - Chapter 7 - is derived from the country’s Constitution, in which chapter 7 refers to the regulations around service delivery. Although Chapter 7 had a whole list of other concerns, the lack of water in the area was highlighted as the biggest worry to residents. Chapter 7 has been running meetings with the Vhembe District Municipality (VDM), which runs Makhado’s water affairs, since last year, but no apparent plan of action is forthcoming to resolve the issue. Louis Trichardt and the surrounding areas have been experiencing intermittent water supply for a long time. Mr Moses Thovhakale, one of Chapter 7’s committee members, told the meeting that some residents in Kutama have been without water for more than two years. Chapter 7 proposed a total shutdown in Louis Trichardt town for a maximum of five days, with no traffic allowed to come in or go out of the town, and the N1 will be closed as well. This suggestion of a total shut down, however, was received with mixed feelings. “Why shut down the schools? That is not good at all,” shouted one resident as he walked out of the meeting. Some were worried about workers who are employed on a “no-work-no-pay” basis, while other were concerned about the loss of business during this time. But Hitesh Dave, also a committee member of Chapter 7, reminded the residents about the importance of standing together. “We cannot come up with our own dates. If we are to fight for everyone’s rights, we need the residents to back us up too. That is the reason for this meeting,” he said. Thovhakale said that the shutdown did not necessarily have to be for five whole days. “Five days is the maximum period. If we protest for one day and the VDM provides water, then there is no need to continue with the shutdown,” said Thovhakale. Chapter 7 said they would apply for the shutdown as soon as the meeting came up with dates for it to take place. The meeting, however, could not come up with dates. Agreement was reached that the discussion would continue on the WhatsApp group. Once an agreement is reached, Chapter 7 will go ahead to apply for the shutdown. 