Following an oversight visit to Musina by Mr Risham Maharaj, member of the Limpopo legislature and DA constituency head for the Musina Municipality, the DA said that they would call on Limpopo Premier Stanley Mathabatha to place the Vhembe District Municipality (VDM) under administration. This is due to what the DA described as the VDM’s continued failure to maintain sewerage infrastructure, wastewater-treatment works (WWTW), and to provide water, not only to the residents of Musina but to the district as a whole. During Maharaj’s visit, he uncovered numerous dry taps and a sewer system on the brink of collapse. Sewage pipes are either blocked or leaking, drains are overflowing, and raw sewage flows down the town’s streets, past schools and businesses. According to a DA press release issued after the oversight visit, the recurring and frequent sewage leaks, as well as constant water shortages, are the result of ageing infrastructure, a lack of staff to operate treatment plants, poor management, and a failure to provide sufficient resources for the maintenance of the sewerage system. The statement goes on to say that the VDM is responsible for 14 WWTW plants, and 13 of those were regarded as being in a critical state in the 2021 Green Drop report. The DA has also found that WWTW and sewerage schemes such as Vuwani, Mutale, Thohoyandou, Malamulele, Mhinga, and Vleifontein have had operational challenges, and some have been inactive since 2021. The DA indicates that the integrated development plan (IDP) for VDM shows it to be the water services authority (WSA) and provider for all four municipalities - Musina, Makhado, Thulamela, and Collins Chabane - and 25.63% of households in the district experience water interruption for more than 14 days over a three-month period, which is above the water-interruption standard. The standard requires a minimum number of days that water is made available and is not interrupted for more than 48 consecutive hours. The statement goes on to say that the water-services infrastructure has been extended to 95% of the population in the district, but much of this infrastructure is not delivering service as per the minimum national standards of quality, quantity, and reliability, because of financial and capacity difficulties. The historic challenges in Vhembe of water shortages and sewerage system breakdowns, the DA states, cannot continue to go unaddressed. The DA expects Premier Mathabatha to place VDM under administration in terms of Section 139 (1) (b) of the Constitution and to undertake the responsibility to maintain the water-treatment and sewerage systems and provide water to desperate residents of the Vhembe District. 