The 19-year-old Jimmy Takalani Musandiwa from Louis Trichardt had an experience of a lifetime on Friday, 10 February, when he teed off alongside the President of the Republic of South Africa, President Cyril Ramaphosa, in the annual Presidential Golf Challenge. The Presidential Golf Challenge takes place annually and followed the State of the Nation Address, which took place on 9 February. This year, the golf challenge was held at the Atlantic Beach Golf Estate at Melkbosstrand, Cape Town. The Presidential Golf Challenge this year rallied support for the Adopt-a-School Foundation, which was established in 2002 to support the delivery of enhanced and conducive teaching environments. The model that the foundation focuses on is developing four critical areas within the school environment, namely leadership, curriculum, infrastructure, and social and learner well-being in adopted schools. Jimmy only found out the day before the tournament that he would be teaming up with the President for the tournament. This sent his stress levels through the roof. He stated, however,  that although he had been quite nervous in the beginning - taking in the venue and other big names accompanying him - he had only needed a few shots to become comfortable and find his groove. He found the situation quite intimidating at first, considering that President Ramaphosa was playing with him, but soon realised that this was only “another day at the office” for him and settled into his game. Jimmy said he saw himself in a new light after the game, setting new expectations and higher standards for himself. The other two big names teeing off with Jimmy and the President were Bantu Holomisa (member of the National Assembly of South Africa) and Charles Molapisi (CEO of MTN South Africa). The most memorable moment for Jimmy was, however, shaking President Ramaphosa’s hand and enjoying a normal conversation with him about the day ahead of them. As for the President’s golfing skills, Jimmy (playing from a seven handicap) said that President Ramaphosa played an average came of golf, but that his game would improve considerably if he spent more time on the golf course. Jimmy was born, raised and still resides in Louis Trichardt and matriculated from Louis Trichardt High School in 2022. After taking an interest in the game of golf in Grade 4, he has grown to love the sport. Although he still lives in his home town, he is not wasting time as he spends most of it on the golf course at the Soutpansberg Golf Club, where he is a member, bettering his skills. Jimmy said that one would most probably find him there, because he was preparing for his next tournament and that he needed to be at his best when gameday came. As for the Presidential Challenge, Jimmy finished fifth in the A Division on Stableford points. 