Amy Iris Cooper, contestant of the Mrs South Africa Pageant, is doing our community proud. She has also been chosen as one of the 100 semi-finalists at the National Casting event at Emperor’s Palace in Johannesburg earlier this month. “I am elated and excited about receiving this news,” says Cooper. “We are blown away by the number of high-quality entries that we received this year, and we are deeply appreciative to have met so many wonderful women from all walks of life,” says Joani Johnson, CEO of Mrs SA. She adds that the casting event was exceptionally difficult as a substantial number of entrants have what is necessary to make a success of the programme. “We are proud to work alongside so many strong, formidable, and inspirational married women, and to empower them through our pillars of community, self-development, and networking to be the leaders and social game-changers that we need in this country,” Johnson says. Sharing more about her decision to enter, Cooper says: “Being a military wife and stay-at-home mother to two beautiful kids has been something I have dedicated the past 11 years of my life to. I have decided to join Mrs South Africa to unlock the undiscovered greatness that is Amy. My husband is a fighter pilot and we reside at the Air Force Base Makhado. He is away for a year for work, and I decided to keep myself busy by entering.” As part of her journey, she hopes to learn new skills to forge a new future as an active participant in life. Cooper was born in Eswatini (previously Swaziland) and was a first princess in the Miss Swaziland pageant in 2005-2006. She attended a modelling school during her high school career and worked as a model in the United Kingdom for approximately two years. She has an advanced diploma in hotel and restaurant management and worked as a banquet manager for several boutique hotels in Ballito and Durban. “This is where I met my husband,” she says. They have been at the Air Force Base Makhado since 2011. “I realised that one can become very secluded by staying home. Women forget that they are always serving – serving their husbands and their children – but never themselves. They are the biggest cheerleaders of their families. We don’t always think of the women behind the curtains – these women and wives need to be empowered, they need to expand their service,” Cooper says. “On my agenda is to help women realise who they are. It is important to let them know not to forget themselves. I am passionate about being a master of ceremonies, public speaking, and motivational talks. Part of my goals during this journey as semi-finalist would be to highlight the role of spouses in the military. Too often the wives are overshadowed – we need to hold it together!” she says. Above all, she enjoys reading, doing puzzles, travelling and food. She loves to uplift women and is the “go-to” person for great advice. “Amy Iris Cooper fully embodies the values that Mrs SA holds most dear and is representative of our tagline for the year: #EveryWoman. We look forward to going on this journey with her and her fellow sisters,” concludes Johnson. “It would be great if some small businesses out there would like to sponsor or support me during this journey. Any support, whether it be monetary, make-up, shoes, clothes, or hair, would be highly appreciated,” adds Cooper. Her journey can be followed on The Mrs SA Facebook Page; Instagram: @amyiriscooper ; on Facebook: Amy Iris Cooper - Mrs South Africa Semi-Finalist 2023 and on Tik tok @amyiriscooper. To vote for her, like, share and SMS Amy Iris Cooper to 47587. 